# Method & Headers

## TRACE Method

* The web server will respond to requests that use the TRACE method by echoing in its response the exact request that was received.
* Occasionally leads to the disclosure of sensitive information such as internal authentication headers appended by reverse proxies.
  * Example an authorization header
* _This functionality could historically be used to bypass the HttpOnly cookie flag on cookies, but this is no longer possible in modern web browsers_

## X-Forwarded-For

<details>

<summary>Theory</summary>

* This is a de-facto standard header for identifying the originating IP address of a client connecting to a web server through a proxy server.

<!---->

* The header is an HTTP multi-valued header, which means that it can have one or more values, each separated by a comma.

<!---->

* This header is not added by default

<!---->

* `X-Forwarded-For: 2001:DB8::6, 192.0.2.1` Let us consider an incoming TCP connection from 127.0.0.1. This implies that the client had IPv6 address 2001:DB8::6 when connecting to the first proxy, then that proxy used IPv4 to connect from 192.0.2.1 to the final proxy, which was running on localhost.

</details>

**Security**

* `$_SERVER['REMOTE_ADDR']` contains actual physical IP address that the web server received the connection from and that the response will be sent to.\\
* `$_SERVER['HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR']` this value is easily spoofed. Try to add it in a request before you are blocked and change the value before you are blocked.

## X-Forwarded-Host

The `X-Forwarded-Host` (XFH) header is a de-facto standard header for identifying the original host requested by the client in the `Host` HTTP request header.

**Security**

Test this header when you need to verify a link generated by the application. For example, a password reset email might contain a link like `https://website.com/reset-password?token=<token>`. By modifying this header, you can control "website.com".

## Referrer-Policy

* The Referrer-Policy HTTP header controls how much referrer information (sent with the Referer header) should be included with requests.
* Aside from the HTTP header, you can set this policy in HTML.

#### Security

* Bypass validation CSRF attack when an application use referer header to defende against CSRF attacks
* [https://github.com/francescovolpe/Offensive-Security-Notes/blob/main/WAPT/Vulnerabilities/CSRF%20(Cross-site%20request%20forgery).md#referer-based-validation-bypass](../../WAPT/Vulnerabilities/CSRF%20\(Cross-site%20request%20forgery\).md#referer-based-validation-bypass)

## X-Original-URL / X-Rewrite-URL

* Some applications support non-standard headers such these in order to allow overriding the target URL in requests with the one specified in the header value.

#### Security

* This behavior can be leveraged in a situation in which the application is behind a component that applies access control restriction based on the request URL.
* https://github.com/francescovolpe/Cyber-Security-Notes/blob/main/Web%20vulnerabilities/Access%20control%20vulnerabilities.md#broken-access-control-resulting-from-platform-misconfiguration
